Citation of your published research

Project name and executive summary
	Title:
		Evoking the N400 Event-Related Potential (ERP) Component Using a Publicly Available Novel Set of Sentences with Semantically Incongruent or Congruent Eggplants (Endings).
	
	Abstract:
		During speech comprehension, the ongoing context of a sentence is used to predict sentence outcome by limiting subsequent word likelihood. Neurophysiologically, violations 
		of context-dependent predictions result in amplitude modulations of the N400 event-related potential (ERP) component. While N400 is widely used to measure semantic 
		processing and integration, no publicly-available auditory stimulus set is available to standardize approaches across the field. Here, we developed an auditory stimulus 
		set of 404 sentences that utilized the semantic anomaly paradigm, provided cloze probability for all stimuli, and was developed for both children and adults. With 20 
		neurotypical adults, we validated that this set elicits robust N400’s, as well as two additional semantically-related ERP components: the recognition potential (~250 ms) 
		and the late positivity component (~600 ms). This stimulus set and the 20 high-density (128-channel) electrophysiological datasets are made publicly available here to 
		promote data sharing and reuse. Future studies that use this stimulus set to investigate sentential semantic comprehension in both control and clinical populations may 
		benefit from the increased comparability and reproducibility within this field of research. 
		
	Task Description:
		The task was first explained to the participant during the consent process and then again before the experimental session. Individuals were asked to refrain from excessive 
		movement and to focus on a fixation cross throughout the task in order to reduce movement artifacts. The experimental session began by explaining the task for a third time. 
		All instructions were presented both visually on the screen and auditorily through the headphones. Instructions were followed by two practice trials which were the same for 
		every participant. Feedback was given about a participant’s response only during practice trials (2 example stimuli) and not during experimental trials. Trials were presented 
		as follows: 1. A fixation cross was on the screen while an auditory sentence stimulus was presented through headphones; 2. A 2 second pause; and 3. A question (presented both 
		visually and auditorily) asked the participant if the sentence ended as expected, where subjects responded with a right or left arrow key when sentences ended as expected 
		(congruent) or unexpected (incongruent) respectively, to end the trial. A two-second delay was inserted between a subject’s response and the start of the next sentence. During 
		the experiment, a total of 440 stimuli were presented to participants in the same order. This was done to ensure that every participant had the same experience throughout the 
		task for every sentence. Stimuli were separated into 11 blocks with optional breaks between each block. Participants could continue onto the next block by pressing the 
		spacebar.

Contact information regarding analyses

	First Author: Kathryn Toffolo
		University Email: kathryn_toffolo@urmc.rochester.edu
		Unafiliated Email: kattoffolo@gmail.com 
		ORCID iD: orcid.org/0000-0002-5728-3174
		Linkedin: Kathryn Toffolo
		

Software used:

	Audacity® software --> Used for sentence compilation and pitch/pace adjustments
	Praat (PRAAT v. 6.1, University of Amsterdam, the Netherlands) --> Used to measure the timing of the sentences and target words
	JASP (JASP Team [2020], Version 0.12.2) --> Statistical analysis
	MATLAB (MathWorks Inc., Natick, MA) --> EEG preprocessing and analysis
	EEGLAB (Delorme & Makeig, 2004) --> EEG preprocessing and analysis
	FieldTrip toolbox (Oostenveld et al. 2010) --> Topography statistical plots
		
Descriptions of Updates:

	9/17/24- Although onsets were previously individually determined, in response to a reviewer’s inquiry, we performed an additional inter-rater reliability assessment to ensure that
		onsets were indeed accurately registered. Three additional listeners were enlisted to independently record final word onsets. Listeners were trained to use the program Praat and 
		assigned ~100 random stimuli (not including the "LD5_Eliminated" stimuli) to record the timing. Afterwards, we compared the previously recorded onset times with the times recorded 
		by the three listeners. Out of 302 stimuli, we noticed only 6 outlier mistakes. The first author then reviewed the remaining stimuli of this set, including the "LD5_Eliminated" 
		stimuli (118 stimuli), and found 4 outlier mistakes. These 10 outlier mistakes are now corrected on the “stimuli_parameter” sheet provided with the original stimulus set. 
		Additionally, minor changes (i.e. 8ms< onset discrepancy <20ms) were made to the “stimuli_parameter” sheet for 9 stimuli. Excluding outliers but including minor changes, the 
		average difference between the previously recorded onsets and the three independent reviewers was 1.1±1.8 ms. As such, we are highly confident in the onset determinations. 
		
		These outlier onset differences do not affect collected data because they are parameters only needed for analysis. The one sentence that was incorrectly presented to subjects has 
		been corrected and uploaded, but will not affect the grand average ERP given the number of stimuli presented (>400). These outlier onset differences also do not affect the analysis 
		of the data for the same reason (i.e. the number of stimuli presented is very large (>400) relative to the outliers). Minor changes (i.e. 8ms< onset discrepancy <20ms) will be even 
		less influental on analysis. 
		
		Below are the specific changes that were made: 
		
			Outlier mistakes:
				(LD5_Eliminated)NPC_chain		- ~805.1ms change
				(LD5_Eliminated)NPC_warm		- ~73.1ms change
				(LD5_Eliminated)NPI_eggs(brake)	- ~638.7ms change
				NPC_blue						- ~90.0ms change
				NPC_cream						- ~73.5ms change
				NPC_gloves						- ~76.1ms change
				NPC_spider						- ~105.1ms change
				NPI_clown(dice)					- ~87.9ms change (Incorrect Sentence. Correct stimulus has been uploaded.)
				NPI_brakes(cob)					- ~38.6ms change
				NPI_out(ant)					- ~22.3ms change
			
			Minor Changes:
				(LD5_Eliminated)NPI_coal(chain)	- ~16.6ms change
				(LD5_Eliminated)NPI_fried(mom)	- ~14.7ms change
				NPC_bath						- ~17.0ms change
				NPC_bright						- ~14.5ms change
				NPC_gum							- ~12.6ms change
				NPI_bath(roar)					- ~14.9ms change
				NPI_cough(friend)				- ~13.9ms change
				NPI_dancers(pirate)				- ~8.6ms change
				NPI_gum(coat)					- ~11.9ms change
	
Description of file(s):

	Stimulus Set ("stimuli"):
	
		This stimulus set includes 221 sentences pairs for a total of 442 auditory sentence stimuli. These sentences are mono, not stereo, and are in a .wav format. The congruent 
		sentence pair is denoted by the prefix "NPC_" for "non-prosodic congruent" and the incongruent sentence pair is denoted by the prefix "NPI_" for "non-prosodic incongruent". 
		Notice that the incongruent stimuli first shows the congruent ending followed by the incongruent ending in parenthases (ex. NPC_bake vs. NPI_bake(milk)). Additionally, there 
		are 20 sentence pairs with the prefix "(LD5_Eliminated)". These stimuli were removed from final analysis because: 1. The endings could make sense to children (Ex. In a 
		universe where animals are personified such as in cartoons, the incongruent ending of “My dog digs holes/spring” could make sense in the context where the verb “dig” is 
		synonymous with “liked”); 2. Did not match in syllable number; 3. Were hyphenated phrases; or 4. Contained cultural references. The specific  linguistic division information 
		for all stimuli are provided in the TSV file "N400Stimset_stimuli_parameters". Although eliminated from our final analysis,  all corresponding timing and divisions for 
		these stimuli are provided in this TSV file if future studies would like to use them in their research. Furthermore,  if researchers would like to analyse the resposnses to 
		these stimuli, the responses to all stimuli are in the raw EEG files for each participant.
			For the sentence stimuli, individual words from the word list (""N400Stimset_stimuli_parameters"" TSV file) were recorded from a female speaker, who was instructed to voice 
		words with minimal inflection, stress or intonation (i.e. in a monotonous non-prosodic manner). Words were then compiled into complete sentences using the Audacity® software. 
		These artificially compiled sentences were adjusted to have similar pitch frequency and pacing across each word within a sentence, and between all sentences. The provided 
		sentences are mono files, not stereo.

		In additionto the stimulus set, 15 task related sentences are included. These audio files were recorded from a female speaker, who was instructed to voice the sentences 
		as she would talking to a young adult. "(Audio_01)DidThisSentenceEndCorrectly" follows each sentence stimulus and is played so the participant knows it is time to respond. 
		"(Audio_02)DoYouWantToTakeABreak") is played at the onset of each break period. "(Audio_03)Congratulations" is played at the end of the task. Audio files with the prefix 
		"(Intro_01)"-"(Intro_05 )" are descrptions of the task, and should be played in order. Audio files with the prefix "(Intro_06)" -"(Intro_11)" are for the practice example 
		section. This includes audio introducing the practice session "(Intro_06)Practice_Intro", audio for between examples "(Intro_07)Practice_LetsTryAnotherOne", and 4 possible 
		responses depending on how the subject answers: 1. If the subject got the answer correct for the congruent example "(Intro_08)PracticeFeedback_Correct4Congruent"; 2. Correct 
		for the incongruent example "(Intro_09)PracticeFeedback_Correct4Inongruent"; 3. Incorrect for incongruent example "(Intro_10)PracticeFeedback_Incorrect4Incongruent"; and 4. 
		Incorrect for the congruent example "(Intro_11)PracticeFeedback_Incorrect4Congruent". Lastly, is the file that lets the participant know that the task is starting "(Intro_12)
		Practice_LetsStartTheTask".
	
	"N400Stimset_stimuli_parameters":		
		The use of this .tsv file was imperitive to this study, and as such is described below. The triggers in the raw EEG data recorded when each stimulus began, not the onset of 
		the target word. The "target_onset" column in this file was added to the onset of each trigger in the EEG data. Before this value was added to the stimulus onset times, the 
		"target_onset(s)" was converted to datapoints by multiplying by the sample rate (512). This file can also be used to see what is said in each sentence. The top half of the file 
		are the sentences with congruent endings while the bottom half are the sentences with incongruent sentence endings. The first 3 columns are the order in which a stimulus was 
		played, the stimulus key, and the stimulus file name so that each sentence can be matched to an audio file. Following this are the sentences separated by each word. This 
		file may be useful to N400 investigations that want to have visual presentation of the stimuli in addition to 
		or instead of auditory presentation. 
	
			"stim_key"- is the order number of the stimulus representing when in the dataset the stimulus was presented (1st sound, 2nd sound, ... etc.).
			"stim_file"- is the audio file name for the presented stimulus.
			"1"- is the first word in the stimulus (sentence).
			"2"- is the second word in the stimulus (sentence).
			"3"- is the third word in the stimulus (sentence).
			"4"- is the fourth word in the stimulus (sentence).
			"5"- is the fifth word in the stimulus (sentence).
			"6"- is the sixth word in the stimulus (sentence).
			"7-" is the seventh word in the stimulus (sentence).
			"8"- is the eighth word in the stimulus (sentence).
			"stim_dur(s)"- is the entire length of each stimulus in seconds.
			"target_onset(s)"- is the time from the beginning of the sentence (the raw trigger time in the raw eeg data) to the START of the target/ending word in seconds.
			"target_end(s)"- is the time from the beginning of the sentence (where the trigger was placed) to the END of the target/ending word in seconds.
			"target_dur(s)"- is the time between the START and the END of the target/ending word in seconds.
			"time-quarter_div"- is the division to investigate for an effect of time. The stimuli are broken into 4 groups (1-4) by quarter. Because the stimuli in this file are in the 
				order that they were presentated to each participant, this column will be in order from 1-4.
			"order-group_div"- is the division to investigate for an effect of order. The stimuli are broken into 4 groups: 1. Is congruent stimuli for the scenerio in which the congruent 
				stimulus pair was presented before the incongruent stimulus pair; 2. Is incongruent stimuli for the scenerio in which the congruent stimulus pair is presented before the 
				incongruent stimulus pair; 3. Is congruent stimuli for the scenerio in which the incongruent stimulus pair was presented before the congruent stimulus pair; 4. Is 
				incongruent stimuli for the scenerio in which the incongruent stimulus pair was presented before the congruent stimulus pair.
			"cloze-probability%_div"- are the cloze probability (CP) scores for each sentence. To investigate for an effect of CP, these scores were broken into 4 different groups: 1. 
				Sentence pairs with CP greater of equal to 96%; 2. Sentence pairs with greater than or equal to 90% CP and less than 96% CP; 3. Sentence pairs with greater than or equal 
				to 80% CP and less than 90% CP; 4. Sentence pairs with less than 80% CP.
			"linguistic-group_div"- is the division to investigate for an effect of linguistic error. The stimuli are broken into 5 groups: 1. Incongruent sentence that contain only semantic 
				ending errors, along with their congruent pair; 2. Incongruent sentences with both semantic errors and a syntactic number error, along with their congruent pair; 3. Incongruent 
				sentences with both semantic errors and syntactic adjective/noun errors, along with their congruent pair; 4. Incongruent sentence stimuli with both semantic errors and 
				syntactic verb/noun ending errors, along with their congruent pair; and 5. Eliminated linguistic division group contained 19 sentence pairs of which the endings could make 
				sense to children, did not match in  syllable number, were hyphenated phrases, or contained cultural references. Final analysis combined groups 2-4 into one larger group of 
				semantic and syntactic error sentence pairs in order to contrast with sentence pairs continaing just semantic errors.
			"linguistic-group_reasoning"- are quick explanations/descriptions for why a stimulus was placed in a particular linguistic group.  
	
	"N400Stimset_cloze-probability-survey"	
		This file includes the RedCap survey answers to establish the cloze probability for each sentence in this experiment. In this survey, each sentence in this stimulus set was presented 
		with the final word missing (blank) and participants were required to fill in this blank with the first singular word that came to mind. If participants could not think of an answer, 
		they were encouraged to guess rather than leave a blank. Non-answers were not counted towards CP scores; participants were removed from the survey data if they answered fewer than 10 
		questions out of the 221; and participants were removed if they scored 3 standard deviations from the mean. Given this elimination criteria, ID numbers 54, 119, and 135 were elimintated, 
		and the survey used the responses from 134 individuals to assess the CP of each sentence. 
			The rows represent each participant and the columns represent their answers. The first columns include the participant #, their 1st language, other languages they know, their age, 
		their gender, and their percent correct out of all the questions. Following this was their individual answers to each fill in the blank. Below the answers to this survey was the answer 
		key to each fill in the blank question (i.e. the intended congruent ending for each sentence). The JSON file "N400Stimset_cloze-probability-survey" provides more information about this 
		dataset including average percent correct, the standard deviation of the percent correct, and the mean age of participants.
			
	"N400Stimset_cloze-probability-survey_results"	
		This file is the final assesment of each fill in the blank question after participant elimination. "#" is the order number of each fill in the blank question. This corresponds to 
		the number at the top of the "N400Stimset_cloze-probability-survey_answers". "total_answers" is the number of participants that answered the particular question while "correct_answers"
		are the number of participants that answered correctly. "cloze_probability" is the cloze probability score for each sentence (i.e. correctanswers/total answers). This is followed by the 
		sentential context given to the participants for each fill in the blank ("sentential_context"), and the intended correct answer for the congruent sentence ("key").